self-hosted/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: Self-Hosted Installation Guide
description: 'Complete guide to setting up your own No Longer Evil infrastructure'
---

<Warning>
  **Work in Progress**: The self-hosted installation is currently a work in progress and may or may not function correctly. For a stable, production-ready experience, we recommend using the [hosted service](/hosted/overview) instead.
</Warning>

<Warning>
  **Before you begin:**

  - Ensure you have a **Nest Generation 1 or Generation 2** thermostat ([check compatibility](/compatibility))
  - This is for **advanced users** comfortable with command line, Docker, and networking
  - You'll need a **server that can run 24/7** (Raspberry Pi, NAS, VPS, etc.)
  - **Gen 1 requires device teardown** - only proceed if comfortable with electronics disassembly
</Warning>

## Overview

The self-hosted installation sets up:
1. **Firmware flashing tools** - To flash your Nest thermostat
2. **Convex backend** - Database for device state (runs in Docker container)
3. **API Server** - Backend server for thermostat communication (runs in Docker container)
4. **Frontend** (optional) - Web dashboard for controlling your thermostats

---

## Step 1: Clone the Repository

Clone the `open-source-prototype` branch:

```bash
git clone -b open-source-prototype https://github.com/codykociemba/NoLongerEvil-Thermostat.git
cd NoLongerEvil-Thermostat
```

---

## Step 2: Install Dependencies

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Ubuntu/Debian">
    ```bash
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install build-essential libusb-1.0-0-dev gcc pkg-config docker.io nodejs npm
    ```

    **Start Docker:**
    ```bash
    sudo systemctl start docker
    sudo systemctl enable docker
    ```

    **Add your user to docker group** (optional, to run docker without sudo):
    ```bash
    sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
    ```
    Log out and log back in for this to take effect.
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="macOS">
    First, install Homebrew if you don't have it:
    ```bash
    /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
    ```

    Then install dependencies:
    ```bash
    brew install libusb pkg-config docker nodejs
    ```

    <Note>
      **Docker Desktop for Mac**: You'll also need to install Docker Desktop from [docker.com](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop). Make sure it's running before proceeding.
    </Note>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

## Step 3: Run the Installer

The installer will:
- Build firmware flashing tools
- Set up Docker containers for Convex backend and API server
- Guide you through flashing your thermostat

Run the installer:

```bash
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

<Note>
  The installer is interactive and will prompt you for configuration options. Follow the on-screen instructions carefully.
</Note>

---

## Step 4: Configure Your Server

After the installer completes, you'll have:

**Running Docker Containers:**
- **Convex Backend** - Database for storing device state
- **API Server** - Handles thermostat communication

**NOT Running:**
- Frontend (web dashboard) - This is optional and must be started separately

### Check Running Containers

```bash
docker ps
```

You should see containers for the Convex backend and API server.

---

## Step 5: Flash Your Thermostat

The installer will guide you through flashing your thermostat. **The process differs for Gen 1 and Gen 2 - choose your device below:**

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Generation 2 (Easy)">
    ### Gen 2: Simple USB Method

    Follow these steps carefully:

    1. **Boot device on backplate** - Connect your Nest to the wall backplate and let it fully boot to the home screen
    2. **Remove from wall** - Once fully booted, remove the Nest from its backplate
    3. **Connect via USB** - Plug the Nest into your computer using a micro USB cable
    4. **Reboot the device** - Press and hold down on the display for 10-15 seconds until the device reboots
    5. **DFU mode active** - The installer will detect the device and begin flashing

    The firmware installer will automatically flash the custom bootloader (x-load, u-boot) and kernel (uImage).
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Generation 1 (Advanced)">
    ### Gen 1: Teardown & Contact Bridge Method

    <Warning>
      **Gen 1 requires physical disassembly.** This process involves opening the device and manually bridging internal contacts. Only proceed if you're comfortable with electronics teardown.

      **Credit:** Gen 1 DFU mode instructions adapted from [guyman70718's cuckoo_loader_gen1 guide](https://github.com/guyman70718/cuckoo_loader_gen1).
    </Warning>

    #### Tools Needed:
    - Phillips screwdriver or prying tool
    - Metal tweezers or similar conductive object
    - Mini USB cable
    - Non-conductive object for battery removal

    #### Teardown Steps:

    <Steps>
      <Step title="Begin Disassembly">
        Follow the [SparkFun Nest Thermostat Teardown Guide](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/nest-thermostat-teardown-/all) to open your Gen 1 thermostat.

        You need to access the internal circuit board.

        <Frame>
          <img src="/public/nest-gen1-teardown-step1.jpg" alt="Gen 1 Nest internal components exposed" />
        </Frame>
      </Step>

      <Step title="Disconnect Battery">
        Unplug the battery by inserting your finger or a **NON-CONDUCTIVE object** underneath the battery wires. It lifts directly up.

        **Important:** Do not use metal tools for this step.
      </Step>

      <Step title="Remove Metal Shield">
        Detach the metal shield from the corner to expose the circuit board components and contact points.

        <Frame>
          <img src="/public/nest-gen1-teardown-step2.png" alt="Metal shield removal" />
        </Frame>
      </Step>

      <Step title="Reconnect Battery">
        Reconnect the battery while keeping the shield removed.

        **Note:** The device will not boot without a battery connected.
      </Step>

      <Step title="Prepare for DFU Mode">
        Ensure:
        - Battery is reconnected
        - Screen is off
        - The installer is waiting for the device
        - Mini USB cable is ready but not yet connected
      </Step>

      <Step title="Bridge Contacts & Connect USB">
        Using metal tweezers or a conductive tool, **bridge the black and yellow resistor contacts** shown in the image below:

        <Frame>
          <img src="/public/nest-gen1-teardown-step3.png" alt="Contact bridging points for DFU mode" />
        </Frame>

        While holding the contacts bridged, connect the mini USB cable to the device.

        The thermostat should boot into DFU mode and the installer will detect it.
      </Step>

      <Step title="Wait for Flash">
        Once detected, the installer will automatically flash the custom bootloader and kernel.

        Keep the device connected and don't disconnect until flashing completes.
      </Step>
    </Steps>

    <Info>
      **After successful flashing**, you can reassemble your Gen 1 thermostat by reversing the teardown steps. The device should boot normally with the new firmware.
    </Info>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

## Step 6: Set Up Frontend (Optional)

The installer **does NOT** start the frontend automatically. The frontend is optional - you can use the hosted dashboard at nolongerevil.com if you prefer.

### To run your own frontend:

1. **Navigate to the frontend directory:**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables:**
   Copy the example environment file and update the values:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   ```

   Then edit `.env.local` and configure the following variables:

   ```bash
   # Email Service (Optional)
   # Leave blank if you don't need email notifications
   RESEND_API_KEY=

   # Encryption Key (REQUIRED)
   # Generate a random string for production use
   ENCRYPTION_KEY=CHANGE-THIS-KEY-IN-PRODUCTION

   # Authentication (Optional)
   # Uncomment these if you want to use Clerk for user authentication
   #NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=
   #CLERK_SECRET_KEY=

   # NextAuth URL (REQUIRED)
   # This is the URL where your frontend is accessible
   # For local access only: http://localhost:3000
   # For network access: http://your-server-ip:3000
   NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000

   # Proxy Server Configuration (REQUIRED)
   # This tells the frontend where your self-hosted API server is running
   PROXY_HOST=192.168.1.100  # Replace with your server's local IP
   PROXY_PORT=80              # 80 for HTTP, 443 for HTTPS
   CONTROL_PORT=8081          # Port for the Control API (default: 8081)

   # Logging (Optional)
   LOG_DIR=./api_logs         # Where to store API logs

   # WebSocket/Subscription Settings (Optional)
   SUBSCRIBE_IDLE_MS=5000     # Idle timeout for long-polling subscriptions
   MAX_SUBSCRIBERS_PER_DEVICE=100  # Max concurrent subscribers per device

   # Frontend Backend URL (REQUIRED)
   # This is the URL the frontend uses to communicate with the Control API
   # Should point to the same server as PROXY_HOST (your API server)
   NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:8081  # Or http://your-server-ip:8081
   ```

   **Key Variables to Update:**
   - `ENCRYPTION_KEY`: Generate a random string (use `openssl rand -hex 32`)
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL`: Your frontend URL (e.g., `http://localhost:3000` for local access, or `http://192.168.1.100:3000` for network access)
   - `PROXY_HOST`: Your server's IP address (e.g., `192.168.1.100`)
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL`: Your Control API URL - same server as `PROXY_HOST` (e.g., `http://192.168.1.100:8081`)

4. **Deploy Convex backend:**
   ```bash
   npx convex deploy
   ```

   Once the deployment completes, press `Ctrl + C` to exit.

5. **Run the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Access the dashboard:**
   Open your browser to `http://localhost:3000`

<Note>
  **Production deployment**: For production use, run `npm run build` and serve the `dist/` folder with a web server like nginx or Apache.
</Note>

---

## Step 7: Home Assistant Integration (Optional)

If you use Home Assistant, you can integrate No Longer Evil using MQTT for automatic device discovery.

### Configure MQTT Integration in Convex

Add the following configuration to your Convex backend:

**Basic MQTT (no authentication):**
```javascript
config: {
  brokerUrl: "mqtt://10.0.0.1",  // Your MQTT broker IP
  discoveryPrefix: "homeassistant",
  homeAssistantDiscovery: true,
  topicPrefix: "nolongerevil",
}
```

**MQTT with authentication (recommended):**
```javascript
config: {
  brokerUrl: "mqtt://10.0.0.1",  // Your MQTT broker IP
  discoveryPrefix: "homeassistant",
  homeAssistantDiscovery: true,
  password: "your_mqtt_password",
  topicPrefix: "nolongerevil",
  username: "mqtt_user",
}
```

**Where to add this:**
1. Access your Convex dashboard
2. Navigate to your backend configuration
3. Add the MQTT integration config
4. Update the values:
   - `brokerUrl`: Your Home Assistant MQTT broker IP
   - `username` & `password`: Your MQTT credentials (if authentication is enabled)

**Requirements:**
- Home Assistant must have MQTT broker configured (Mosquitto addon recommended)
- MQTT broker must be accessible from your No Longer Evil server
- If using authentication, create a dedicated MQTT user in Home Assistant

<Note>
  Once configured, your Nest thermostats will automatically appear in Home Assistant under MQTT devices with the prefix `nolongerevil`. They will support climate control, temperature monitoring, and scheduling through Home Assistant.
</Note>

---

## Step 8: Configure Networking (For Remote Access)

If you want to access your thermostat remotely (outside your local network):

<Steps>
  <Step title="Port Forwarding">
    Configure your router to forward these ports to your server:
    - **Port 443** - Thermostat Communication API (HTTPS)
    - **Port 8081** - Control API (HTTP)
    - **Port 5173** (or 80/443 if using nginx) - Frontend (if self-hosting)
  </Step>

  <Step title="DNS/DDNS Setup">
    Set up a domain name or Dynamic DNS (DDNS) service to point to your public IP:
    - Use a service like DuckDNS, No-IP, or your own domain
    - Configure it to update automatically if your IP changes
  </Step>

  <Step title="SSL/TLS Certificates">
    For secure HTTPS access, set up SSL certificates:
    - Use Let's Encrypt with certbot
    - Or use a reverse proxy like nginx with automatic certificate management

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get install certbot
    sudo certbot certonly --standalone -d your-domain.com
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

---

## Step 8: Link Your Device

Once your thermostat is flashed and connected to your server:

1. On your Nest device, navigate to: **Settings → Nest App → Get Entry Code**
2. The device will display a unique entry code
3. Enter this code in your frontend dashboard (or the hosted dashboard if you're using that)
4. Your device is now linked and ready to use!

---

## 🎉 Success!

Your self-hosted No Longer Evil infrastructure is now running!

**What's Running:**
- ✅ Convex backend (Docker container)
- ✅ API Server (Docker container)
- ✅ Frontend (if you set it up)
- ✅ Your thermostat is connected to YOUR server

---

## Managing Your Server

### Start/Stop Containers

**View running containers:**
```bash
docker ps
```

**Stop all containers:**
```bash
docker stop $(docker ps -q)
```

**Restart containers:**
```bash
docker restart $(docker ps -q)
```

### View Logs

**API Server logs:**
```bash
docker logs <container-id>
```

**Follow logs in real-time:**
```bash
docker logs -f <container-id>
```

---

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Troubleshooting" icon="life-ring" href="/self-hosted/troubleshooting">
    Solutions to common self-hosting issues
  </Card>
  <Card title="API Reference" icon="code" href="/api-reference/introduction">
    Learn about the API endpoints
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

---

## Credits & Acknowledgments

This project builds upon the excellent work of several security researchers and developers:

- **[grant-h](https://github.com/grant-h) / [ajb142](https://github.com/ajb142)** - [omap_loader](https://github.com/ajb142/omap_loader), the USB bootloader tool used to flash OMAP devices
- **[exploiteers (GTVHacker)](https://github.com/exploiteers)** - Original research and development of the [Nest DFU attack](https://github.com/exploiteers/NestDFUAttack)
- **[guyman70718](https://github.com/guyman70718)** - [cuckoo_loader_gen1](https://github.com/guyman70718/cuckoo_loader_gen1) guide and teardown documentation for Gen 1 DFU mode access
- **[FULU](https://bounties.fulu.org/)** and all bounty backers - For funding the [Nest Learning Thermostat Gen 1/2 bounty](https://bounties.fulu.org/bounties/nest-learning-thermostat-gen-1-2)

Without their groundbreaking research, open-source contributions, and advocacy for device ownership rights, this work would not be possible. Thank you!

Commit message:

Update frontend env example to include NEXT_PUBLIC_CONVEX_URL

self-hosted/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: Self-Hosted Installation Guide
description: 'Complete guide to setting up your own No Longer Evil infrastructure'
---

<Warning>
  **Work in Progress**: The self-hosted installation is currently a work in progress and may or may not function correctly. For a stable, production-ready experience, we recommend using the [hosted service](/hosted/overview) instead.
</Warning>

<Warning>
  **Before you begin:**

  - Ensure you have a **Nest Generation 1 or Generation 2** thermostat ([check compatibility](/compatibility))
  - This is for **advanced users** comfortable with command line, Docker, and networking
  - You'll need a **server that can run 24/7** (Raspberry Pi, NAS, VPS, etc.)
  - **Gen 1 requires device teardown** - only proceed if comfortable with electronics disassembly
</Warning>

## Overview

The self-hosted installation sets up:
1. **Firmware flashing tools** - To flash your Nest thermostat
2. **Convex backend** - Database for device state (runs in Docker container)
3. **API Server** - Backend server for thermostat communication (runs in Docker container)
4. **Frontend** (optional) - Web dashboard for controlling your thermostats

---

## Step 1: Clone the Repository

Clone the `open-source-prototype` branch:

```bash
git clone -b open-source-prototype https://github.com/codykociemba/NoLongerEvil-Thermostat.git
cd NoLongerEvil-Thermostat
```

---

## Step 2: Install Dependencies

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Ubuntu/Debian">
    ```bash
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install build-essential libusb-1.0-0-dev gcc pkg-config docker.io nodejs npm
    ```

    **Start Docker:**
    ```bash
    sudo systemctl start docker
    sudo systemctl enable docker
    ```

    **Add your user to docker group** (optional, to run docker without sudo):
    ```bash
    sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
    ```
    Log out and log back in for this to take effect.
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="macOS">
    First, install Homebrew if you don't have it:
    ```bash
    /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
    ```

    Then install dependencies:
    ```bash
    brew install libusb pkg-config docker nodejs
    ```

    <Note>
      **Docker Desktop for Mac**: You'll also need to install Docker Desktop from [docker.com](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop). Make sure it's running before proceeding.
    </Note>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

## Step 3: Run the Installer

The installer will:
- Build firmware flashing tools
- Set up Docker containers for Convex backend and API server
- Guide you through flashing your thermostat

Run the installer:

```bash
chmod +x install.sh
./install.sh
```

<Note>
  The installer is interactive and will prompt you for configuration options. Follow the on-screen instructions carefully.
</Note>

---

## Step 4: Configure Your Server

After the installer completes, you'll have:

**Running Docker Containers:**
- **Convex Backend** - Database for storing device state
- **API Server** - Handles thermostat communication

**NOT Running:**
- Frontend (web dashboard) - This is optional and must be started separately

### Check Running Containers

```bash
docker ps
```

You should see containers for the Convex backend and API server.

---

## Step 5: Flash Your Thermostat

The installer will guide you through flashing your thermostat. **The process differs for Gen 1 and Gen 2 - choose your device below:**

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Generation 2 (Easy)">
    ### Gen 2: Simple USB Method

    Follow these steps carefully:

    1. **Boot device on backplate** - Connect your Nest to the wall backplate and let it fully boot to the home screen
    2. **Remove from wall** - Once fully booted, remove the Nest from its backplate
    3. **Connect via USB** - Plug the Nest into your computer using a micro USB cable
    4. **Reboot the device** - Press and hold down on the display for 10-15 seconds until the device reboots
    5. **DFU mode active** - The installer will detect the device and begin flashing

    The firmware installer will automatically flash the custom bootloader (x-load, u-boot) and kernel (uImage).
  </Tab>

  <Tab title="Generation 1 (Advanced)">
    ### Gen 1: Teardown & Contact Bridge Method

    <Warning>
      **Gen 1 requires physical disassembly.** This process involves opening the device and manually bridging internal contacts. Only proceed if you're comfortable with electronics teardown.

      **Credit:** Gen 1 DFU mode instructions adapted from [guyman70718's cuckoo_loader_gen1 guide](https://github.com/guyman70718/cuckoo_loader_gen1).
    </Warning>

    #### Tools Needed:
    - Phillips screwdriver or prying tool
    - Metal tweezers or similar conductive object
    - Mini USB cable
    - Non-conductive object for battery removal

    #### Teardown Steps:

    <Steps>
      <Step title="Begin Disassembly">
        Follow the [SparkFun Nest Thermostat Teardown Guide](https://learn.sparkfun.com/tutorials/nest-thermostat-teardown-/all) to open your Gen 1 thermostat.

        You need to access the internal circuit board.

        <Frame>
          <img src="/public/nest-gen1-teardown-step1.jpg" alt="Gen 1 Nest internal components exposed" />
        </Frame>
      </Step>

      <Step title="Disconnect Battery">
        Unplug the battery by inserting your finger or a **NON-CONDUCTIVE object** underneath the battery wires. It lifts directly up.

        **Important:** Do not use metal tools for this step.
      </Step>

      <Step title="Remove Metal Shield">
        Detach the metal shield from the corner to expose the circuit board components and contact points.

        <Frame>
          <img src="/public/nest-gen1-teardown-step2.png" alt="Metal shield removal" />
        </Frame>
      </Step>

      <Step title="Reconnect Battery">
        Reconnect the battery while keeping the shield removed.

        **Note:** The device will not boot without a battery connected.
      </Step>

      <Step title="Prepare for DFU Mode">
        Ensure:
        - Battery is reconnected
        - Screen is off
        - The installer is waiting for the device
        - Mini USB cable is ready but not yet connected
      </Step>

      <Step title="Bridge Contacts & Connect USB">
        Using metal tweezers or a conductive tool, **bridge the black and yellow resistor contacts** shown in the image below:

        <Frame>
          <img src="/public/nest-gen1-teardown-step3.png" alt="Contact bridging points for DFU mode" />
        </Frame>

        While holding the contacts bridged, connect the mini USB cable to the device.

        The thermostat should boot into DFU mode and the installer will detect it.
      </Step>

      <Step title="Wait for Flash">
        Once detected, the installer will automatically flash the custom bootloader and kernel.

        Keep the device connected and don't disconnect until flashing completes.
      </Step>
    </Steps>

    <Info>
      **After successful flashing**, you can reassemble your Gen 1 thermostat by reversing the teardown steps. The device should boot normally with the new firmware.
    </Info>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

## Step 6: Set Up Frontend (Optional)

The installer **does NOT** start the frontend automatically. The frontend is optional - you can use the hosted dashboard at nolongerevil.com if you prefer.

### To run your own frontend:

1. **Navigate to the frontend directory:**
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Configure environment variables:**
   Copy the example environment file and update the values:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   ```

   Then edit `.env.local` and configure the following variables:

   ```bash
   # Email Service (Optional)
   # Leave blank if you don't need email notifications
   RESEND_API_KEY=

   # Encryption Key (REQUIRED)
   # Generate a random string for production use
   ENCRYPTION_KEY=CHANGE-THIS-KEY-IN-PRODUCTION

   # Authentication (Optional)
   # Uncomment these if you want to use Clerk for user authentication
   #NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=
   #CLERK_SECRET_KEY=

   # NextAuth URL (REQUIRED)
   # This is the URL where your frontend is accessible
   # For local access only: http://localhost:3000
   # For network access: http://your-server-ip:3000
   NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000

   # Convex URL (REQUIRED)
   # This is your Convex deployment URL
   # You'll get this after running 'npx convex deploy'
   NEXT_PUBLIC_CONVEX_URL=https://your-deployment-url.convex.cloud

   # Proxy Server Configuration (REQUIRED)
   # This tells the frontend where your self-hosted API server is running
   PROXY_HOST=192.168.1.100  # Replace with your server's local IP
   PROXY_PORT=80              # 80 for HTTP, 443 for HTTPS
   CONTROL_PORT=8081          # Port for the Control API (default: 8081)

   # Logging (Optional)
   LOG_DIR=./api_logs         # Where to store API logs

   # WebSocket/Subscription Settings (Optional)
   SUBSCRIBE_IDLE_MS=5000     # Idle timeout for long-polling subscriptions
   MAX_SUBSCRIBERS_PER_DEVICE=100  # Max concurrent subscribers per device

   # Frontend Backend URL (REQUIRED)
   # This is the URL the frontend uses to communicate with the Control API
   # Should point to the same server as PROXY_HOST (your API server)
   NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=http://localhost:8081  # Or http://your-server-ip:8081
   ```

   **Key Variables to Update:**
   - `ENCRYPTION_KEY`: Generate a random string (use `openssl rand -hex 32`)
   - `NEXTAUTH_URL`: Your frontend URL (e.g., `http://localhost:3000` for local access, or `http://192.168.1.100:3000` for network access)
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_CONVEX_URL`: Your Convex deployment URL (obtained from running `npx convex deploy`)
   - `PROXY_HOST`: Your server's IP address (e.g., `192.168.1.100`)
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL`: Your Control API URL - same server as `PROXY_HOST` (e.g., `http://192.168.1.100:8081`)

4. **Deploy Convex backend:**
   ```bash
   npx convex deploy
   ```

   Once the deployment completes, press `Ctrl + C` to exit.

5. **Run the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Access the dashboard:**
   Open your browser to `http://localhost:3000`

<Note>
  **Production deployment**: For production use, run `npm run build` and serve the `dist/` folder with a web server like nginx or Apache.
</Note>

---

## Step 7: Home Assistant Integration (Optional)

If you use Home Assistant, you can integrate No Longer Evil using MQTT for automatic device discovery.

### Configure MQTT Integration in Convex

Add the following configuration to your Convex backend:

**Basic MQTT (no authentication):**
```javascript
config: {
  brokerUrl: "mqtt://10.0.0.1",  // Your MQTT broker IP
  discoveryPrefix: "homeassistant",
  homeAssistantDiscovery: true,
  topicPrefix: "nolongerevil",
}
```

**MQTT with authentication (recommended):**
```javascript
config: {
  brokerUrl: "mqtt://10.0.0.1",  // Your MQTT broker IP
  discoveryPrefix: "homeassistant",
  homeAssistantDiscovery: true,
  password: "your_mqtt_password",
  topicPrefix: "nolongerevil",
  username: "mqtt_user",
}
```

**Where to add this:**
1. Access your Convex dashboard
2. Navigate to your backend configuration
3. Add the MQTT integration config
4. Update the values:
   - `brokerUrl`: Your Home Assistant MQTT broker IP
   - `username` & `password`: Your MQTT credentials (if authentication is enabled)

**Requirements:**
- Home Assistant must have MQTT broker configured (Mosquitto addon recommended)
- MQTT broker must be accessible from your No Longer Evil server
- If using authentication, create a dedicated MQTT user in Home Assistant

<Note>
  Once configured, your Nest thermostats will automatically appear in Home Assistant under MQTT devices with the prefix `nolongerevil`. They will support climate control, temperature monitoring, and scheduling through Home Assistant.
</Note>

---

## Step 8: Configure Networking (For Remote Access)

If you want to access your thermostat remotely (outside your local network):

<Steps>
  <Step title="Port Forwarding">
    Configure your router to forward these ports to your server:
    - **Port 443** - Thermostat Communication API (HTTPS)
    - **Port 8081** - Control API (HTTP)
    - **Port 5173** (or 80/443 if using nginx) - Frontend (if self-hosting)
  </Step>

  <Step title="DNS/DDNS Setup">
    Set up a domain name or Dynamic DNS (DDNS) service to point to your public IP:
    - Use a service like DuckDNS, No-IP, or your own domain
    - Configure it to update automatically if your IP changes
  </Step>

  <Step title="SSL/TLS Certificates">
    For secure HTTPS access, set up SSL certificates:
    - Use Let's Encrypt with certbot
    - Or use a reverse proxy like nginx with automatic certificate management

    ```bash
    sudo apt-get install certbot
    sudo certbot certonly --standalone -d your-domain.com
    ```
  </Step>
</Steps>

---

## Step 8: Link Your Device

Once your thermostat is flashed and connected to your server:

1. On your Nest device, navigate to: **Settings → Nest App → Get Entry Code**
2. The device will display a unique entry code
3. Enter this code in your frontend dashboard (or the hosted dashboard if you're using that)
4. Your device is now linked and ready to use!

---

## 🎉 Success!

Your self-hosted No Longer Evil infrastructure is now running!

**What's Running:**
- ✅ Convex backend (Docker container)
- ✅ API Server (Docker container)
- ✅ Frontend (if you set it up)
- ✅ Your thermostat is connected to YOUR server

---

## Managing Your Server

### Start/Stop Containers

**View running containers:**
```bash
docker ps
```

**Stop all containers:**
```bash
docker stop $(docker ps -q)
```

**Restart containers:**
```bash
docker restart $(docker ps -q)
```

### View Logs

**API Server logs:**
```bash
docker logs <container-id>
```

**Follow logs in real-time:**
```bash
docker logs -f <container-id>
```

---

## Next Steps

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card title="Troubleshooting" icon="life-ring" href="/self-hosted/troubleshooting">
    Solutions to common self-hosting issues
  </Card>
  <Card title="API Reference" icon="code" href="/api-reference/introduction">
    Learn about the API endpoints
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

---

## Credits & Acknowledgments

This project builds upon the excellent work of several security researchers and developers:

- **[grant-h](https://github.com/grant-h) / [ajb142](https://github.com/ajb142)** - [omap_loader](https://github.com/ajb142/omap_loader), the USB bootloader tool used to flash OMAP devices
- **[exploiteers (GTVHacker)](https://github.com/exploiteers)** - Original research and development of the [Nest DFU attack](https://github.com/exploiteers/NestDFUAttack)
- **[guyman70718](https://github.com/guyman70718)** - [cuckoo_loader_gen1](https://github.com/guyman70718/cuckoo_loader_gen1) guide and teardown documentation for Gen 1 DFU mode access
- **[FULU](https://bounties.fulu.org/)** and all bounty backers - For funding the [Nest Learning Thermostat Gen 1/2 bounty](https://bounties.fulu.org/bounties/nest-learning-thermostat-gen-1-2)

Without their groundbreaking research, open-source contributions, and advocacy for device ownership rights, this work would not be possible. Thank you!
